Types of Source Control
    Primitive - you save the whole document multiple times with different names.
    Source Code Control System (SCCS) - stores original version and sets of changes.
    Revision Control System (RCS) - stored latest version and sets of changes.
    Concurrent Versions System (CVS) - multiple files, entire project, multi-user repositories. (trouble with renaming files)
    Apache Subversion (SVN) - track text and images. Track file changes collectively, not just the files. 
    BitKeeper SCM - closed source, Linux kernel was actually using this from 2002-2005
    Git - created by Linus Torvalds, replacement of BitKeeper.


Distributed Version Control
    Git is distributed version control.
        Different users maintain their own repositories.
        Changes are stored as change sets. (tracks changes, not versions)
        No single master repository.
        Many working copies.
    No need to communicate with a central server.
    No network access required.
    No single failure point.
    Encourages participation and forking of projects.
    All repos are considered equal by Git.


Git Configuration
    git config --modifer(system, global)
    git config --global user.name "Benjamin Arsenault"
    git config --global user.email "hi@benjamin.dev"
    git config --global core.editor "editor.exe --wait"


Git auto-completion
    Will try to guess what you are typing, when in terminal click tab.


Git help
    git help


Git Basicss
    git init // initializes repository
    .git is where git is stored, if deleted git will be removed from a project.
    git add . // adds all files to staging area, will now track changes.
    git commit -m "commit message" // makes a commit with a message.
        Always begin with a short single-line summary (less than 50 characters).
        Optionally followed by a blank line and a more complete description.
        Write commit messages in present tense, not past tense. ("fix for a bug" not "fixed a bug").
        Be clear and descriptive.
    git log // returns a log of all commits.
        git log -n 5 // limits number of commits to said number
        git log --author="Kevin" // lists commits by Kevin
        git log --grep="init" // globally search for regular expressions, shows all inits 
    git status // shows current status
    git diff // view changes between repository version and working directory.


Git Concepts and Architecture
    The Three Trees
        Repository 
        Staging Index (add changes we want before commit)
        Working (checkout from repo, commit to repo)
    Git workflows
        git add <file>
        git commit
        git add <file>
        git commit
        Git generates a checksum for each chnage set, Checksum algorithms convert data into a simple number, same data always equals same checksum, Data integrity is fundamental, changing data will change checksum. Uses SHA-1 hash algorithm.
    HEAD Pointer
        Points to parent of next commit where writing commits takes place.
        Points to tip of repository.
        HEAD exists in .git/HEAD, refs/heads/master 


